---
title: v1.7 release
published: true
layout: post
---

# Version 1.7 Release Summary (April 18, 2024)
* New Instruments in Data Explorer
* CAMHD additional videos available
* Pioneer array moved to Mid-Atlantic Bight
* Jupyter Hub integration into Data Explorer and demos from users
* Data Explorer Maintenance 

# New Feature details
## Instruments and additional video added to Data Explorer
The following new or updated instruments and data have been added to the Data Explorer. 

### Bio-acoustic sonar instruments: 
* Coastal Endurance, Washington Inshore Surface Mooring (CE06ISSM CE06ISSM-MFD37-07-ZPLSCC000)

  View at [OOI Data Explorer: Washington Inshore Surface Mooring](https://dataexplorer.oceanobservatories.org/#ooi/array/CE/subsite/CE06ISSM/node/CE06ISSM-MF?instrument_id=CE06ISSM-MFD37-07-ZPLSCC000)
* Global Southern Ocean, Apex Profiler Mooring (GS02HYPM GS02HYPM-MPM01-02-ZPLSGA009)

  View at [OOI Data Explorer: Apex Profiler Mooring](https://dataexplorer.oceanobservatories.org/#ooi/array/GS/subsite/GS02HYPM/node/GS02HYPM-MP?instrument_id=GS02HYPM-MPM01-02-ZPLSGA009)

Additional bio-acoustic sonar instruments are undergoing review and are expected to be viewable in the Data Explorer soon.

### Wire-following profiler:
* Regional Cabled Array - Axial Seamount, Axial Base Deep Profiler Mooring (VEL3D RS03AXPD-DP03A-02-VEL3DA303)

  View at [OOI Data Explorer: Axial Base Deep Profiler Mooring](https://dataexplorer.oceanobservatories.org/#ooi/array/RSAXIAL/subsite/RSAXIAL03AXPD/node/RS03AXPD-DP?instrument_id=RS03AXPD-DP03A-02-VEL3DA303)

### Real-time, high resolution 3-D Single Point Velocity Meter now available:
* Coastal Endurance, Oregon Shelf Cabled Benthic Experiment Package (CE02SHBP-LJ01D-07-VEL3DC108) is now streaming real-time high resolution data

  View at [OOI Data Explorer: Oregon Shelf Cabled Benthic Experiment Package ](https://dataexplorer.oceanobservatories.org/#ooi/array/CE/subsite/CE02SHBP/node/CE02SHBP-LJ/real-time?instrument_id=CE02SHBP-LJ01D-07-VEL3DC108)

### High-definition video:
* Additional temporal coverage for high-definition (CAMHD) video at the ASHES vent field is being continually processed and added to the Data Explorer. At present, data are available for July 2015 - March 2024. Use the slider on the time axis to access processed videos for alternate times.

  Explore videos at [ASHES Vent field video](https://dataexplorer.oceanobservatories.org/#ooi/media/RS03ASHS-PN03B-06-CAMHDA301?t=video&s=2022-12-29T12:00:00.000Z)

## Pioneer array moves to the Mid-Atlantic Bight
The Pioneer instrument array has been successfully moved to a new location in the Mid-Atlantic Bight, and data are now live on the Data Explorer. For more information about the move, see [Coastal Pioneer Array Relocation](https://oceanobservatories.org/pioneer-array-relocation/). Data can be found by selecting East Cost: Coastal Pioneer MAB from the Data Explorer [home page](https://dataexplorer.oceanobservatories.org/#), or directly by following [this link](https://dataexplorer.oceanobservatories.org/#ooi/array/CP1?search=).

## Jupyter Hub
The Jupyter Hub environment is available alongside the OOI Data Explorer as an interactive, OOI private cloud environment for data analytics. Using Jupyter Hub from Data Explorer keeps data access in one place, where users can access processed science and raw data files without download, support for 40+ programming languages, and the ability to create notebooks for collaboration or learning. OOI organized a Town Hall meeting for Jupyter Hub users to share use cases and tips and answer questions. The Town Hall was recorded and is available for viewing at https://youtu.be/tGn9hGdenfw.

## Maintenance
Maintaining operations of the Data Explorer is a continual activity with little visibility to Data Explorer users until things go awry. To keep systems running smoothly, OOI and Axiom recently completed a planned upgrade of the Cyber Infrastructure which involved a service migration to new hosts. The service migration allows repurposing or decommissioning of the old hosts and provides greater control and flexibility of systems as well as the ability to maintain an adequate recovery time. The service migration was done carefully in a way to minimize observed downtime of production services.

